#summary Templates and Buffer - Samstyle PHP Framework Documentation

===Documentation Details===
For Samstyle PHP Framework
Revision 1

= Introduction =

On this page, you're going to learn more about Templates in Samstyle PHP Framework. Basically Samstyle PHP Framework uses a template system that is easy to implement and understand.

On top of the usual HTML and XHTML, Samstyle PHP Framework uses the <$tagname$> tags to insert content, variables and blocks into the template and then echo out the buffer.

= Template Flow =

  # Output is buffered into `$_PAGE['content']` variable through the use of p($string) function.
  # Before the end of the PHP script, the `$_PAGE['content']` buffer is parsed by the framework.
  # Then the final buffer that contains the actual contents will be output to the browser.

= Reasons behind this flow =

  * By reducing the number of echo output and instead use a variable buffering, the load time is reduced. This has been tested. (Test was to output `"testing 123<br/>"` 10000 times by buffering then echo, and directly echo. Time taken for buffering is 0.0580809116364 seconds and for direct echo is 0.183017015457 seconds)
  * Allows `header()` calls within code and output instead of only before output.
  * Allows a more consistent output.

= Tags in the templates =

These are the following standard tags that will be parsed from the templates and the contents of the corresponding tags will replace the tags.
{{{

$_TEMPLATE = array(
   '<$content$>'=>$_PAGE['content'],
   '<$title$>'=>$_PAGE['title'],
   '<$copyright$>' => $_SITEINFO['copyright'],
   '<$cssurl$>' => $_PAGE['css'],
   '<$baseurl$>' => $s_http[0],
   '<$robots$>' => $_PAGE['robots'],
   '<$header$>' => $_PAGE['header'],
   '<$metarevisit$>' => '1',
   '<$pagekeywords$>' => $_SITEINFO['keywords'],
   '<$pagedescription$>' => $_SITEINFO['description'],
   '<$logourl$>'=>$_PAGE['logourl'],
   '<$content$>'=>$_PAGE['content'],
   '<$version$>' => $_SITEINFO['ver'],
   '<$footer$>' => $_PAGE['footer'],
   '<$sitename$>' => $_SITEINFO['name'],
   '<$approot$>'=>$_SITEINFO['approot'],
   '<$sitelang$>'=>'en-gb',
   '<$sessid$>' => session_id(),
   '<$self$>' => $_SERVER['PHP_SELF']
);

}}}